OBSDOCS-1372 - Logging 6.1.0 Release Notes (#84666)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-6-1-0-rn.adoc

= Logging 6.1.0 Release Notes
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

:mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

> [id="logging-release-notes-6-1-0_{context}"]

Author: False.

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2024:9038[{OCP-short}{logging} Release 6.1.0].

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-1-0-enhancements"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* This enhancement adds the source `iostream` to the attributes sent from collected container logs. The value is set to either `stdout` or `stderr` based on how the collector received it. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5292[LOG-5292])

* With this update, the default memory limit for the collector increases from 1024Mi to 2024Mi. Users should adjust resource limits based on their cluster’s specific needs and specifications. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6072[LOG-6072])

> * With this update, users can now set the syslog output delivery mode to either AtLeastOnce or AtMostOnce. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6355[LOG-6355])

Reviewer: Should we format the values?

```suggestion
* With this update, users can now set the syslog output delivery mode to either `AtLeastOnce` or `AtMostOnce`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6355[LOG-6355])
```

=== Log Storage

> * With this update, the new 1x.extra-small LokiStack size supports OCP clusters with fewer workloads and lower log volumes (up to 50GB/day). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5939[LOG-5939])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the new 1x.pico LokiStack size supports OCP clusters with fewer workloads and lower log volumes (up to 50GB/day). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5939[LOG-5939])
```

Reviewer: Added formatting to Peri's suggestion:

```suggestion
* With this update, the new `1x.pico` LokiStack size supports OCP clusters with fewer workloads and lower log volumes (up to 50GB/day). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5939[LOG-5939])
```

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-0-technology-preview-features"]
== Technology Preview Features

> * This enhancement adds the originating `iostream` to the attributes forwarded from collected container logs. The value will be set to either `stdout` or `stderr` depending on how it was ingested by the collector. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5637[LOG-5637])

Reviewer: If this is a tech-preview feature, should this be made clear in the "new features" section above as well? Another option would be to just list it here.

Author: No, it gets its own section. https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#technology-preview-guidance

Author: Nah, tech previews have their own rules per the supplemental style guide.

> * This enhancement adds the originating `iostream` to the attributes forwarded from collected container logs. The value will be set to either `stdout` or `stderr` depending on how it was ingested by the collector. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5637[LOG-5637])

Reviewer 3: This description is incorrect as the link as for e2e OTLP support an not the iostream feature which was properly listed  as an enhancement

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing the OpenTelemetry end-2-end support as TP Feature here, right?

> = Logging 6.1.0 Release Notes

Reviewer 4: @libander I'm merge reviewing the Differntiation [PR](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/84861/files#diff-2620632a1c41ceaaaa2cc8438f93892424205fcd52cdab1d11cf904bbf08bff0), and I am wondering if the 6.1 RN file there, which is titled 6.0.0, and this file(https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/84861/files#diff-2620632a1c41ceaaaa2cc8438f93892424205fcd52cdab1d11cf904bbf08bff0) will clash?

Reviewer 4: cc @smunje1 @briandooley

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

:mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-0_{context}"]

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2024:9038[{OCP-short}{logging} Release 6.1.0].

[id="openshift-logging-release-notes-6-1-0-enhancements"]
== New Features and Enhancements

=== Log Collection

* This enhancement adds the source `iostream` to the attributes sent from collected container logs. The value is set to either `stdout` or `stderr` based on how the collector received it. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5292[LOG-5292])

> * With this update, the default memory limit for the collector increases from 1024Mi to 2024Mi. Users should adjust resource limits based on their cluster’s specific needs and specifications. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6072[LOG-6072])

Reviewer 5: This will be covered in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OBSDOCS-1494

> * With this update, users can now set the syslog output delivery mode to either `AtLeastOnce` or `AtMostOnce.` (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6355[LOG-6355])

Reviewer 6: Do we need to show users how to set this?

Author: Added where those fields are.

=== Log Storage

* With this update, the new `1x.pico` LokiStack size supports clusters with fewer workloads and lower log volumes (up to 50GB/day). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5939[LOG-5939])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-0-technology-preview-features"]
== Technology Preview

> With this update, the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource now supports forwarding logs to OpenTelemetry-compatible receivers using HTTP/JSON, as defined by the OpenTelemetry OTLP specification. This enhancement allows logs to be transported to Red Hat Managed Lokistack or other OTLP-compliant services.

Reviewer 7: This specific release is only related to sending to lokiStack, although the "tech-preview" relates to anything OTLP at this point.   We previously released the otlp (generic) output in 6.0, which sends to compatible receivers.   For 6.1, we are adding the feature to the lokiStack output spec, via the new `dataModel` field.

Reviewer 7: Additionally, or maybe not worth the mention, but our lokiStack now "accepts" the collector's otel logs, which is the other part of the feature (along with query and UI work).

Reviewer 5: This will be covered in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OBSDOCS-1494

> With this update, the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource now supports forwarding logs to OpenTelemetry-compatible receivers using HTTP/JSON, as defined by the OpenTelemetry OTLP specification. This enhancement allows logs to be transported to Red Hat Managed Lokistack or other OTLP-compliant services.

Author: fixed.

[IMPORTANT]
====
This feature is a Technology Preview and requires enabling the following annotation in the `ClusterLogForwarder` configuration:
`observability.openshift.io/tech-preview-otlp-output: "enabled"`
For more information about Technology Preview support, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====

=== Configuration

Specify `otlp` as the output type in the `ClusterLogForwarder` to enable OTLP output. Configuration options include:

- Setting the `url` for the OTLP receiver endpoint.
- Configuring `tls` settings with `insecureSkipVerify`, if required.

> - Setting `authentication` with a service account token.

Reviewer 7: I agree.   These are the incorrect steps to forward otlp logs to lokistack.   Instead this needs to reference the new `lokiStack.dataModel` field, and setting the value to `Otel`.
Here's our upstream feature doc as well:    https://github.com/openshift/cluster-logging-operator/blob/master/docs/features/logforwarding/outputs/opentelemetry-lokistack-forwarding.adoc

> - Setting `authentication` with a service account token.

Reviewer 5: This will be covered in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OBSDOCS-1494
